Track star Marion Jones has acknowledged using steroids as she prepared for the 2000 Summer Games
in Sydney and is scheduled to plead guilty today in New York to two counts (1)
of lying to federal agents
about her drug use and an unrelated financial matter, according to a letter Jones sent to close family and
friends.
Jones, who won five medals at the Sydney Olympics, said she took the steroid known as "the clear" for
two years beginning in 1999, according to the letter. A source familiar with Jones's legal situation who
requested anonymity confirmed the relevant facts that were described in the letter.
"I want to apologize to you all for all of this," Jones said. "I am sorry for disappointing you all in so many
ways."
Jones's admissions could cost her the three gold and two bronze medals she won in Sydney while
enlarging the cloud of doubt hovering over(2)
Olympic and professional sports, which have been tarred (3)
in recent years with accusations of performance-enhancing drug use, steroids busts and positive drug
tests by prominent athletes.
In December 2004, the International Olympic Committee opened an investigation into allegations
surrounding steroid use by Jones, once considered the greatest female athlete in the world. In the past,
Jones has vehemently denied using steroids or any performance-enhancing drugs.
"This is a shame," World Anti-Doping Agency Chairman Dick Pound said in a telephone interview
yesterday. "This was America's darling at the 2000 Summer Olympics. . . . I hope this will have a
deterrent effect. It's not merely cheating in sports, but now she has lied her way to exposure to penal
sanctions."
In the letter, Jones, who will turn 32 next Friday, said her former coach, Trevor Graham, gave her the
substance, telling her it was the nutritional supplement flaxseed oil
(4)
and that she should take it by putting
two drops under her tongue. Graham, contacted by telephone yesterday, declined to comment.
Jones said she "trusted [Graham] and never thought for one second" she was using a performanceenhancing drug until after she left Graham's Raleigh, N.C.-based training camp at the end of 2002. "Red
flags should have been raised in my head when he told me not to tell anyone about" the supplement
program, she said. She also said she noticed changes in how her body felt and how she was able to
recover from workouts after she stopped taking the substance in 2001.
